---
layout: post
title: "Review: Complete Shadow Symbolic Execution with Java PathFinder"
date: 2023-06-13
---

This is the review of the "Complete Shadow Symbolic Execution with Java
PathFinder"
article that you can
find [here](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3364452.33644558).

# Meta

This article is written by five authors from Humboldt University: Yannic Noller,
Minxing Tang, Hoang Lam Nguyen, Lars Grunske, and Timo Kehrer. It was published
in [ACM SIGSOFT October 2019](https://dl.acm.org/newsletter/sigsoft).

Keywords: _Regression Testing, Symbolic Execution, Symbolic PathFinder_

| Conference  | Track                        | Year | Authors | Citations | Pages | Figures | References | Formals |
|-------------|------------------------------|------|---------|-----------|-------|---------|------------|---------|
| ACM SIGSOFT | Software and its engineering | 2019 | 4       | 3         | 5     | 6       | 16         | Absent  |

As you can see from the table above, this article is not very popular and
primarily holds practical value.

# What is the study about?

Actually, the article describes a possible method for generating test cases for
Java programs. The approach is based on Shadow Symbolic Execution (SSE), which
was previously discussed in
a [publication](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3208952) from 2018 (source). This
article serves as a continuation and further exploration of that topic.
In other words, the approach described in the article enables the generation of
precise tests by leveraging the differential changes (patches) in the code.
While the previous SSE approach had limitations in detecting regression bugs,
the new approach aims to identify missed bugs at the cost of increased algorithm
execution time. In essence, SSE focused on specific paths of the Symbolic
Execution Tree, whereas the new approach aims to explore all possible paths.

# Contribution

So, the authors state the following contributions:

* They propose a new approach for generating test cases by combining complete
  symbolic execution with the concept of four-way forking.
* They introduce a tool called SHADOW JPF+ (an extension for SHADOW JPF) to
  validate the ideas presented in the article.
* They evaluate the implemented tool using various examples, including the
  [Joda-Time](https://www.joda.org/joda-time/) library.

As mentioned in the article, the authors have successfully addressed all the
problems that were identified. While it may not be considered a major
breakthrough in the industry or a significant innovation, it certainly
represents a noteworthy improvement over the previous approach and the existing
tool SHADOW JPF.

# Review

Let's take a closer look at the article. However, before we do, I'd like to
mention that I will provide a personal review in this section. I will discuss
the strengths of the article and also provide suggestions on how it can be
improved to enhance its quality. Again, it is solely my own perspective.

## Problem statement

The authors provide a comprehensive explanation of the current state-of-the-art
regarding the problem. They effectively describe the main concepts of Symbolic
Execution and Shadow Symbolic Execution, as well as the key challenges faced by
current approaches, such as:

- "Deeper divergence might be missed in the BSE phase"
- "The initial input has to cover potential divergence point"

Both of these points highlight the main issue with the current SSE solution -
its inability to uncover all possible paths of Symbolic Execution that could
potentially lead to bugs. The new solution presented in the article aims to
address this limitation.

So, it can be said that the problem statement is clear, and the authors provide
a solid explanation of the current state-of-the-art as well as their objectives
in addressing it.

## Innovation

As for the level of innovation, it can be challenging to make a definitive
judgment. On one hand, the approach presented in the article represents a
notable improvement over the previous method. However, on the other hand, it can
be seen as a programming solution and a modest step towards enhancing Symbolic
Execution. Therefore, it can be concluded that the level of innovation is
relatively small and holds primarily practical value. In other words, it is a
software solution that still possesses notable performance limitations.

Furthermore, even after four years since the article was published, we do not
have clear information about the practical utilization of the proposed solution.
However, as mentioned previously, the authors have clearly stated their
contributions and successfully achieved their goals (refer to
the ["Contribution"](#contribution) section for more details.)

## Evaluation

Well, to be honest, the evaluation process is the most contradictory part of the
article. However, the authors do provide a clear explanation of how they
conducted the evaluation:

> We selected the following software artifacts as our experimental subjects
> from the official SPF repository1 (with the corresponding LOC): Rational.abs (
> 30), Rational.gcd (40), Ratio- nal.simplify (51), WBS.update (234) and
> WBS.launch (242) and generated in total 79 mutants with the Major mutation
> framework with the following change types: Relational
> Operator Replacement (ROR), Operator Replacement Unary (ORU), Arithmetic
> Operator Replacement (AOR) and State- ment Deletion (STD).

As you might notice, the maximum number of lines of code (LOC) being 242 is
relatively small. In practical terms, this can be considered a low number,
especially for real-world usage. It would be beneficial to include more complex
examples with a higher LOC count and intricate logic, even if the results might
be less favorable. This would provide a more comprehensive understanding of the
tool's capabilities and highlight any genuine limitations, which is equally
crucial for future research.

## Readability

It is worth mentioning that the article is well-written. Firstly, it is easy to
read and comprehend, allowing readers to grasp the main idea effectively. The
authors provide a clear explanation of the main concepts and background,
ensuring a solid understanding of the subject matter.

Moreover, the article demonstrates a well-structured and logically flowing
narrative. It effectively presents the contributions, research questions, and
results (despite the previous comment made about them). Each section is clearly
presented, indicating careful attention to formatting. While formatting may be
underestimated by some, I personally consider it an important aspect of an
article, and in this case, it has been executed well:

* Each part of the article is appropriately formatted, including titles, code
  samples, and figure names.
* The code samples are presented with a suitable font and coloring, aiding
  readability and understanding.
* Tables and figures are positioned correctly within the article, accompanied by
  appropriate descriptions, and effectively convey all the necessary
  information.

In general, I would highly recommend adopting a similar formatting style for
other technical articles. The clear and consistent formatting employed in this
article enhances readability and understanding, making it easier for readers to
navigate and comprehend the content.

# Conclusion

So, in general, I highly recommend this article to anyone who is genuinely
interested in the topic of Symbolic Execution, particularly the Shadow Symbolic
Execution technique. It provides a thorough explanation of the subject matter
and offers valuable insights for further exploration and research in this
area.
The solution described in the article presents a practical
algorithm for enhancing the original SSE algorithm. The final evaluated and
tested tool adds further interest to the study.
Despite potential critiques, it is essential to acknowledge that the article
primarily falls under the category of engineering rather than pure research. It
focuses on providing practical steps for enhancing the algorithm, emphasizing
practicality over theoretical exploration.
The best trait of the article is undoubtedly its readability, as it effectively
communicates the concepts and ideas to the readers. On the other hand, the
evaluation aspect is considered the weakest point. Nevertheless, it is crucial
to have articles like this that incrementally enhance software techniques and
technologies, as they contribute to the overall progress in the field.

Indeed, it is hopeful that the authors will continue their work and strive for
significant improvements. Progress and advancements in the field are often the
result of ongoing research and development efforts. It will be exciting to
witness future developments and the potential impact they may have on software
techniques and technologies.






